# gitlab-slackbot

gitlab-slackbot is a...wait for it...bot that integrates Slack and Gitlab.  Currently it allows the user to subscribe to notifications about pushes to Gitlab repositories.

**Usage**
```
/{bot-name} subscribe {repo name}
/{bot-name} unsubscribe {repo name}
/{bot-name} list
```

**Installation**
- Create a [slash command](https://api.slack.com/slash-commands) integration in Slack.  Note the automatically generated token, which should be used as the `SLACK_OUTGOING_HOOK_TOKEN` environment variable.
- Create a [incoming webhook](https://api.slack.com/incoming-webhooks) integration in Slack.  Note the Webhook URL, which should be used as the `SLACK_PUSH_HOOK_URL` environment variable.
- Create a [webhook](https://gitlab.com/help/web_hooks/web_hooks) in GitLab for *each* repository from which you would like to send push notifications.  Depending on the version of GitLab, you may or may not have a 'Secret Token' field to fill out when creating the webhook.  If the field is unavailable, then the token must be provided as a query parameter to the URL (e.g. `https://my-gitlab-slackbot.com/api/gitlab-hook?token=mySecretToken`). This token should be used as the `GITLAB_WEBHOOK_TOKEN` environment variable.

**Development**

gitlab-slackbot is built with Node.js and utilizes RabbitMQ to allow fast processing of the GitLab webhooks and Redis for data persistence.  It is easy to deploy the bot locally or on Heroku.  Deployment to Heroku requires a Web Dyno and a Worker Dyno.

**Running Locally**

* Run ```npm install```
* Set the following environment variables in a .env file. The .env extension is included in .gitignore.  See [node-foreman](https://github.com/strongloop/node-foreman) for more information.
    * `REDIS_URL` - URL of your Redis instance.
    * `CLOUDAMQP_URL` - URL of your RabbitMQ instance.
    * `MESSAGE_QUEUE_NAME` - the name of the message queue where GitLab push notifications will be published.
    * `SLACK_PUSH_HOOK_URL` - URL of the Incoming Hook for Slack.
    * `SLACK_OUTGOING_HOOK_TOKEN` - token that will be used to validate requests from Slack to the bot API. This token is generated by slack when the slash command integration is created.
    * `GITLAB_WEBHOOK_TOKEN` - token that will be used to validate requests from GitLab to the bot API. This token is created by the user.
    * `HELP_FOOTER` - An optional message to attach to a footer on the help menu.  Leave the value blank if you do not want to include a footer.
* Now run:
```npm start```

**Running on Heroku**

The `REDIS_URL` and `CLOUDAMQP_URL` should be added to your Heroku app's environment config after you add the corresponding add-ons to your app.  Add the remainder of the environment variables listed above. From the Heroku dashboard, navigate to {app-name} > Settings > Reveal config vars

Run ```git push heroku master --force``` to deploy the app.

